okay so the next segment on information
retrieval has to deal with evaluation of
information retrieval systems it's very
important to evaluate search engines
because it's very difficult to compare
them just purely based on anecdotal
evidence so some of the metrics that I
used to evaluate information retrieval
systems include the size of the index so
large engines like Bing and Google would
get high score this criterion speed of
indexing is also very important we want
whenever there is a change in a document
to be indexed and added to the index as
quickly as possible speed of leap Evo is
also very important users typically
don't want to wait more than a fraction
of a second to get their hits accuracy
is very important we provide the correct
answers to the users queries timeliness
do we index the most up-to-date versions
of documents so that whenever the user
wants to find out what happened just now
we don't want to show them all the
versions of the documents ease of use is
of course also very important how is it
to formulate the query to revise the
query and so on and another important
criterion is expressiveness of the
search language does it allow natural
language questions does it allow
searching for phrases for words that
appear together in the same sentence
words in different languages and
alternatives and so on let me show you
something called the contingency table
that is used very often in information-
evaluation and also in many other tasks
including question answering and
summarization as we have seen in some
other sections of the class so the
contingency table has four cells in the
first column we represent the number of
documents that were retrieved by the
information retrieval system given the
query and the second column we show the
documents that were not treated by the
system the first row includes the
documents that are actually relevant to
the query and the second row is the ones
that are not relevant to the query so
the sum of the numbers in those four
cells is equal to the number of
documents in their tak collection so W
is the number of two positives so those
are the documents that were received by
the system and that are also relevant to
the users query
z or the number of two negatives is the
number of documents that were not
treated by the system but we're also not
supposed to be able to because they're
not relevant to the user query so wz
obviously are good things we want a
system to have good values high values
for W and Z in the other diagonal we
have x equals two false negatives so
those are the documents that were not
written by the system but they were
supposed to be rated so they're misses
and we also have similarly Y which is
equal to the number of false positives
so those are the documents that were not
supposed to be retrieved but the system
will turn incorrectly so m2 is the sum
of W plus y this is the total number of
receive documents N one is W plus X or
the number of relevant documents and n
which the number of all the documents in
the collection W plus X plus y plus Z so
just like in text summarization we can
define precision in Rico Rico is a table
divided by W plus X and precision is W
divided by W past well I just took a
fresher memories Rico means that you can
Co not be high if the system returns as
relevant most of the actual documents at
irrelevant and precision is got behind
if almost all of the documents returned
by the system are indeed irrelevant okay
let's look at some of the issues
involved in evaluating information
retrieval systems so one thing that can
easily cause one's mind is why not just
use accuracy as the evaluation metric
accuracy would be the sum of the two
good values W the number of two
positives in Z and an hour of two
negatives obviously normalized by n so
one polling with this is that in a
typical case the value of Z is much
larger than the value of W so it's
completely possible to get an accuracy
of 99.5% or even higher even if W itself
is 0 or close to zero which is obviously
not some that we want we don't want to
emphasize two negatives over two
positives so what other issues have to
be present how to report rather the
performance of a system over a large
number of queries well this is typically
not just by averaging the precision of
the possible quote is given in the
evaluation another thing that is
typically done is to report the value at
which precision is equal to recall and
this is done so that the system doesn't
artificially inflate P at the expense of
R or vice versa and finally one other
metric that is used to report a single
number for evaluation is the F measure
which represents our weighted
combination of precision and recall in
practice what is more commonly uses the
f1 measure which is 2 divided by the sum
of the reciprocals of Riko and precision
or in other words the harmonic mean of
precision and recall so very often in
research papers will you see f1 measures
reported as single metrics so now the
next slide is going to show us a sample
take query so you're going to ask me
what is check so check is the text
retrieval evaluation conference which
has been organized annually by the
National Institutes of Standards and
Technology in the United States so it
provides the systems with this
collection of documents and also
collection of queries that have three
different sections so here's an example
of those the three sections are the
title the description and the narrative
so the title for this example is most
dangerous vehicles the description is
which are the most crashworthy and least
crashworthy passenger vehicles and then
there is a narrative so the systems that
participate in this evaluation are
supposed to use one two or all three of
those fields and we'll return in each of
those settings the most relevant
documents in the collection so this
example here are the IDS on the right
represent the documents that have been
considered to be relevant to the query
by human annotators and here's what a
document typically looks like in tracked
its marked up in sgml or XML more
recently and it contains markup for
metadata such as headline length and
date and then each of the paragraphs is
marked appropriately so if interested in
the tech evaluation you can go to the
NIST website and find all the different
tracks
have been used in the different years
and there is a set of presentations that
shows how the different systems compare
with one another so in addition to the
take evaluation corpus people have used
other reference collections for
information retrieval
so for genetically people they include
things like the or Hsu meds which is a
collection of medical documents can fill
the CAC M which includes things like
manuals and also other types of
scientific papers for text
classification which is one of the
topics that we're going to look at a
little bit later people use the Reuters
collection and the twenty newsgroups
collection for question answering they
use the tech question answering
collection for web retrieval they use
gov or WT 100g which the first one being
a core of the entire golf domain and the
second one being a 100 gigabyte
collection of the web corpus and for
blog purposes people use many different
data sets including the buzz metrics
data sets and the finally for ad hoc
information retrieval or documentary
tivo people use tag collections which
are relatively small in size two to six
gigabytes for the web they use the tech
web collections which have a lot more
data so now let's see how we can compare
the performance of two systems suppose
that one system gives you an F measure
of sixty percent and another one gives
you an F measure of sixty-five percent
can you claim that the second system is
better so we clearly cannot do this over
one query because given a single query
it's completely possible at one of the
system just happens to do a really good
job and the other one can fail instead
what we need to do is to find the
average performance over many different
queries but one thing that we can do
even better is to make sure that on
every query one of the system
outperforms one of the systems our
outperforms the other one okay so one of
the common methods that is used to find
out which system is better than another
is a so called sign test this is a
technique that comes from the statistics
community and it's based on the
principle of hypothesis testing so we
have two systems and each of the systems
is run on a number of queries and we
have collected the
performance on each of those queries and
won't we want to compare how many times
system a outperform system B how many
times they got the same perform and then
how many times B outperform a so in
statistical hypothesis testing we have
the so-called null hypothesis that says
that the two systems are equally good
and based on the data that we have
observed we want to find out the
probability that the null hypothesis is
rejected so that means that system a is
actually better than system B so if we
plug in those numbers into a scientist
calculator we're going to see that the
probability in this case is about 3.5%
which means that it's very unlikely that
the two systems are equally good and we
have to reject the null hypothesis and
assume that a is better than B in
another example we have a better than B
18 times and be better than eight nine
times so in this case the ratio is much
smaller between the two categories so if
we plug in those numbers into the
calculator we'll see that the
probability is 12% so that means that we
don't have enough evidence to reject the
null hypothesis and therefore we cannot
claim that system a is better than
system B so where it's very important
when you write a research paper in
information retrieval to include
statistical significance test like this
so that you can actually validate your
claim that your system is superior
here's an external link to an actual
scientist calculator that you can use in
your own experiments there's a lot of
tests that are used some of which don't
just look at the sign of the difference
between the two systems so which one is
better but they actually look at the
difference of the values of the two
systems so one of that those tests is
the so called t-test of student t-test
and here's another calculator that
corresponds to that test another test
that is used a lot in information
retrieval is the so-called Wilcox from
matched pair sign ranks test and I'm
including here a link to a calculator
for it too so this concludes the section
on evaluation of information retrieval
systems